# Homework_1_Case_Study

## Overview

The concept for Flywire, an ease of payment platform, was born out of the frustrations felt by international student Iker Marcaide while he was pursuing an MBA at MIT Sloan School of Business. While studying in Boston Marcaide experienced trouble transferring funds from his native Spain to finance his tuition bills. He was not alone in this dilemma, as many of his fellow expat peers in Boston and throughout the United States struggled logistically to make payments while separated physically from their native country because of, among other things, a lack of transparency, hidden fees and fluctuating exchange rates. Mr. Marcaide, who has since become a serial entrepreneur, was confident that he could create a better process and founded peerTransfer, which would later become Flywire, in 2011 with the mission to directly help international students studying in the United States by simplifying their tuition payment methods. Flywire has since expanded into the Healthcare and Travel industries, but has always maintained the same goal: to help their customers navigate the increasingly globalized world by circumventing national borders which have traditionally dictated payment methods. According to Cruchbase data, Flywire has received $263.2 million in venture capital funding since its inception in 2011. This included a Series E round of funding in 2020 that was lead by Goldman Sachs with a $120 million allocation. Flywire also acquired _Simplee_, a developer of payment software for the healthcare industry, which had raised $36.4 million in VC funding. Mike Massaro, the current CEO of Flywire, put this most recent source of capital in perspective by explaining that the company's cash on hand expanded from $45 million to $80 million, with a very slow burn rate expected in the coming years. 

## Business Activities

Flywire was created to help revolutionize the tuition payment system for international students. As mentioned above, it has since grown and expanded into the healthcare and travel space, both of which suffer from the same structural issues faced by Marcaide during his pursuit of an MBA. According to Massaro, "all three are fraught with a lack of digitization and are inherently complex with legacy systems involved" and that "these areas have been underserved." Traditionally, people have relied on banks to transfer and transact money across the world. This infrastructure is grounded on hidden fees and confusion surrounding varying exchange rates that have typically put consumers in a precarious position. More over, this industry historically has been slow to revolutionize and has caused logistical shortcomings to persist. Flywire has sought to radically change this status quo with the introduction of its global payment platform. This platform is the summation of a network of payment partners in more than 240 countries, that breaks down boundaries by enabling domestic transactions in a seamless experience. 

Flywire's actual customers are firms and institutions operating in either the education, healthcare or travel space that wish to make the payment process more efficient for their consumers. For example, Flywire partners with institutions of higher education who wish to provide their students with an easier mode of payment. Similarly, Flywire has begun partnering with healthcare providers with intent to transform the notoriously complex healthcare billing space to one that is more easily understood by their beneficiaries. Flywire's partners and their end consumers have benefited from its global payment platform that has many advantages. These include the ability to pay in local currencies, discounted exchange rates that cannot be matched by incumbent banks, payment tracking and 24/7 multilingual support across phone, chat and email. 

To facilitate the distribution and growth of this global payment platform, Flywire leverages a software as a service (SaaS) model in which it provides and hosts the software that is ultimately used by its clients. However, as Massaro again explains, Flywire does not "just deliver the software that helps around payments" but actually facilitates the movement of this money. In fact, a majority of Flywire's revenue comes from its transaction-based model rather than the software it provides to its colleges and universities, healthcare providers, and travelers. 

## Landscape

Flywire has deservedly received recognition as a top perform in the FinTech industry as it has won awards in Singapore and was listed as one of Forbes' next billion-dollar startups. Indeed, Flywire has distinguished itself as a leader in the payment solutions domain because of its innovative approach and basket of payment solutions. This dominance has not been easy as the payment solutions domain is both dynamic and heavily populated. Over the past 10 years the payment space has been shaped by a number of trends and innovations that has seen competitors rise and fall. One of these innovations has been the rise of global e-commerce that has been facilitated by payment providers wishing to make global transitions seamless across national borders. While this innovation helps e-commerce companies scale by increasing their marketability beyond their local economies it also helps underdeveloped countries and their populations by providing a safe space to store their capital, a service that has been historically absent to people in the developing world who lack the access to reliable banking networks. 

A more recent trend has been the growing acceptance of mobile e-commerce. With the emergence of platforms such as Apple Pay and Samsung Pay, consumers now have the ability to safely, easily and efficiently make payments using their smart phones. The movement by consumers to this payment solution was facilitated by FinTech firms that sought to make this option secure, which helped to quell online privacy concerns that is typical of mobile banking.

Above all, the payment solution space has been shaped by an monolithic movement towards a frictionless payment experience for consumers. Advancements that have been made in software and chip technology have made, on the whole, payments easier both for in-person and contactless transactions. This innovation has made it effortless for consumers to ramp up their spending without having to worry about forfeiting security or convenience. In the coming years, the payment solutions space will be shaped by the continued growth of new technologies, such as blockchain and AI. In particular, the rise of banking as a service (BaaS) will foster a radical realignment between incumbent and startup firms as it will be easier for a disrupter to enter the space. 

While Flywire has been, in many cases, an industry leader on these and other innovations, there is a plethora of other FinTech firms that they are forced to share the space with. For example, _TransferWise_ is a London-based transfer service that was established in the same year as Flywire. The firm supports more than 750 currency routes across the world with the promise to breakdown the same barriers that Flywire customers wish to circumvent. Similarly, _Payoneer_ has established a cross-border payment platform that has allowed for a fast, flexible, secure and low-cost solution to the inefficiencies typical in moving money across the globe. 

## Results

Flywire's focus on ease of payment solutions and customer success is what has helped foster the exponential growth it has enjoyed over the past few years. Although Flywire is privately held and we do not have access to their financial statements, we do know that, according again to their CEO, they were experiencing an annual revenue of over $100 million prior to the COVID-19 outbreak, their employee base expanded from 50 to 530 in just five years and that they had a valuation of over $1 billion after their last round of funding. In comparison to similar startups, such as TransferWise, Stripe and Payoneer, Flywire is smaller in both valuation and number of employees. Futhermore, while Flywire's latest round of funding was a respectable $263.2 million, they were dwarfed by TransferWise ($319 million) and Stripe ($600 million) during their most recent fundraising and have received less private investment year-to-date. This perceived shortcoming, however, can most likely be attributed to Flywire's current reluctance to enter the e-commerce space. 

To date, Flywire has processed over $12 billion in payments for 2,000 clients and have expanded to over 200 countries and services 150 currencies. In comparison, TransferWise moves $5 billion **every month** and has 8 million customers all of whom enjoy a similar offering of countries and currencies. However, again this apparent inferiority is misleading as TransferWire, Stripe and Payoneer have customers that are individual consumers and has expanded into the e-commerce space, where as Flywire has a B2B sales model. Therefore, the shortfalls in payment volume and clients can be attributed to differences in business strategies rather than superiority across these competitors. 

Indeed, Flywire's operational strategy has been a model for excellence, particularly in an uncertain world that is being consumed by a pandemic, social unrest and political turmoil. For example, due to the spread of the virus student movement has been restricted and many will not by on campus physically during the 2020-21 school year. This extreme disruption has caused many educational institutions and students to worry that there would be a similar disruption in their payment plan and options. However, Flywire's focus on payment continuity, 24/7 multilingual support and expert advice has allowed for little to no slowdown in payment volume in this space as their continued focus on ease of payment everywhere and anywhere has served their clients well.

## Recommendations

As Flywire moves forward and approaches supremacy in the education, healthcare and travel space they will need to look for ways to continue their growth by adopting new payment platforms, solutions and technologies. One service that I would suggest that they consider incorporating into their portfolio of payment solutions would e-commerce functionality. Beyond being one of the fastest growing technologies in the payment domain this offering will also increase their customer base. While there are thousands of colleges and universities, and many more healthcare providers, for Flywire to market their current solutions towards, e-commerce would allow them to begin selling to small, medium and large firms in the retail industry that would want to increase their own customer base. Flywire would also benefit from having their services have greater exposure the general population outside of the education, healthcare and travel industries in more frequent transactions. This would likely increasing the money movement that they facilitate and thereby grow their revenue.

To create an efficient and effective payment gateway, Flywire will have to utilize _encryption_. This is necessary to establish a connection between the user's browser and the server of the retailer in order to encrypt data for exclusive use between seller and buyer. _Authorization request_ to gain approval from the user's financial institutions as well as _fulfillment_ capability to allow the website to proceed with the next action are also necessary to create a seamless experience. Beyond these foundational technologies, Flywire will have to consider what type of payment gateway they will want to be. They could be a redirect, like PayPal, in which buyers would be taken from the retailers website to Flywire's payment page in order to complete the purchase. This option would increase the friction of the transaction but give Flywire complete autonomy over the payment experience. On the other hand, Flywire could pursue a strategy where the front-end checkout occurs on the retailer's site but the payment processing occurs through Flywire on the backend. This option does increase the seamless experience relative to the redirect option but will decrease Flywire's control of the user's entire experience as they will be at the mercy of the quality of the offsite gateway and its unusual design features. 

Of course, these are only the technological innovations in the e-commerce domain as they stand today. In the coming years, this domain will come to be defined by new advancements in AI, virtual reality, mobile-commerce and blockchain. In order to both enter and succeed in e-commerce, Flywire will have to adapt as these new opportunities present themselves. 

## Work Cited

*https://news.crunchbase.com/news/bostons-newest-unicorn-flywire-raises-120m-in-goldman-sachs-led-series-e/#:~:text=Flywire%2C%20a%20Boston%2Dbased%20vertical,to%20%E2%80%9Cover%20%241%20billion.%E2%80%9D&text=The%20new%20financing%20takes%20Flywire's,million%2C%20according%20to%20Crunchbase%20data.

*https://www.flywire.com/news/flywire-simplifying-cross-border-payments-powering-the-future-of-global-payments

*https://www.pymnts.com/news/payment-methods/2019/flywire-offers-upgraded-cross-border-payments-for-boa-users/

*https://www.flywire.com/company/about

*https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/industries/financial%20services/our%20insights/tracking%20the%20sources%20of%20robust%20payments%20growth%20mckinsey%20global%20payments%20map/global-payments-report-2019-amid-sustained-growth-vf.ashx

*https://www.forbes.com/sites/jiawertz/2019/05/26/3-payment-innovation-trends-that-will-evolve-e-commerce/#6a915fea49b4

*https://craft.co/flywire/competitors

*https://transferwise.com/us

*https://www.flywire.com/resources/the-impact-of-coronavirus-on-our-education-clients

*https://pitchbook.com/profiles/company/51207-94#overview

*https://www.bigcommerce.com/blog/payment-gateways/#3-types-of-payment-gateways

*https://saylordotorg.github.io/text_small-business-management-in-the-21st-century/s08-03-e-commerce-technology.html

*https://www.shippit.com/blog/2019/03/11/5-ways-technology-is-changing-ecommerce/

